Skip to main content
Compass

    Cyber Security Immersive
    Incomplete Activities (61)

    Frederic
    2

    4

W05D2 
Tue Jul 23

    Outline & Notes (1)
    Lectures (1)
    Work (10)
    Other (1)

        Project: Risk Management Case Study

POWERED BY
Lighthouse Labs
Risk Management Case Study
Evaluated Project

w05d2 → w05d2
Not Submitted

In this project, you will use the ISO 27001 Risk Management Framework to create a Risk Management Plan for the scenario described in the case study. You will utilize your understanding of Risk Assessment Table, Risk Treatment Table, and Statement of Applicability (SOA) to complete the Risk Management Plan.
My Submissions

The status of your previous submissions to this project are displayed here. However, you have not submitted this project.

    Description
    Eval Rubric

Project Description

This is your project activity for the course. As you are already aware, the purpose of Risk Management is to systematically find out which incidents can happen to an organization and apply the process of Risk Treatment to minimize the damage of such incidents in an organization. In this case study, you will create a Risk Management Plan as well as an Executive Summary for the organization mentioned in the case study below.
Instructions

In this project, you will first develop a Risk Management Plan for DHA Enterprise Inc. (DHAEI), and finally an Executive Summary, as explained below.
Risk Management Plan

Your Risk Management Plan for DHAEI should include the following components:

    Purpose, scope, and users
    Risk Assessment and Risk Treatment Methodology:
        2.1 Risk Assessment:
            The process: Explain what process you might follow. List 3 or more individuals or groups you might involve & why.
            Assets, vulnerabilities, and threats: Based on the information provided by DE, list the 3 main threats you expect DE to face and the challenges you expect them to face while managing these threats; reflect back on vulnerabilities and threats.
            Determining the risk owners: In examination of three different risks, create a “chain” of ownership of the risk from ground level to senior executive level. Explain what and how each owner may contribute to the chain.
            Impact and likelihood: Create a table that lists three threats or risks. Reflect and document the effect of these risks on C, I, or A or more than one of these, to what extent (from 0 to 10) and how likely (0 to 5)?
            Risk acceptance criteria: Explain how the most likely / highest risk item may impact DE and explain why some items in the table may be “ignored” or “minimized” based on the information provided by DE – reflect back on your risk assignments.
        2.2 Risk Treatment: Summarize the 3 main threats you have identified above, what recommended mitigations or responses you recommend for each and what priority you would give each one. Be sure to explain your prioritizations and your recommended responses. Don’t forget to reference industry standard frameworks to aid you in deciding on your recommended mitigations or responses.

Executive Summary

Develop an executive summary that gives insight into the case, Risk Assessment and Identification, and the recommendations for Risk Treatment. Remember, write your Executive Summary in the business language, and not overtly technical language, as it is meant to be read by the management team and the decision makers who are usually not technically trained.
Warning

Develop your Risk Management Plan and Executive Summary on a single Google Doc.
Note

Before you dive into the case study: As you analyse the scenario in the case study, don't forget to take notes and capture any key information that you think will help you develop the Risk Management Plan.
DHAEI Case Study
Company Background

DHAEI is a software development company based in the Durham area. The company has a main office in Oshawa, Ontario and several branch offices.

Established in June 2019, DHAEI provides basic Internet access, fast Internet access, and Web registration and hosting alternatives for small office/home office (SOHO) individuals and organizations. It is a privately-owned company managed by its founder and CEO, Alan Hake.

Org Chart for DHAEI company

The CIO, Amanda Wilson, has 15 years of technical experience and 10 years of experience as a Senior IT Manager. Shortly after taking a position as CIO, Amanda hired Paul Alexander as Manager of Information Security. A reorganization in 2020 resulted in an enhanced recognition of the role of information security at DHAEI. It also resulted in Paul being named Chief Information Security. Along with this increased recognition came a group of dedicated personnel and a budget of approximately $500,000 for equipment, personnel, and training. As shown in the diagram, Paul currently has two full-time security technician positions (one of which is unfilled) and an intern.

Org Chart for DHAEI company

Org Chart for DHAEI company

DHAEI runs a mix of workloads on Rackspace and AWS. The company needs to ensure that all of its systems meet a minimum level of security and that its information is protected from attacks. The company also needs a way to collect and act on security events from across its digital estate.

DHAEI decided to establish a network infrastructure to provide authentication, authorization, and accounting of its network assets. It will also require a contingency system in place in a form of load-balancing and cluster management to provide redundancy and risk mitigation.
Existing Environment

DHAEI has a single Active Directory domain named DHA.com. All the servers run Windows Server 2019. All of the clients run Windows 10. The main office has two domain controllers named DCI and DC2; one file server named FSI, a Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) server named WSUSI, and an infrastructure server named DHADNS that provides DNS services to the network.

Each branch office has one server that is configured as a read-only domain controller (RODC). The branch office servers provide all infrastructure services as well as functioning as a branch office file.

There are 1,500 users in the main office. Each branch office has about 200 users. All of the users in the main office and the branch office use desktop computers.

About 20 programmers work from home offices using company-issued laptops. The remote workers connect to the main office using L2TP VPN connections.

The main office has a central technology department that is responsible for all technical issues within the company. There is one support technician located in each branch office.
Planned Changes

DHAEI plans a new branch office in Brampton, Mississauga. Data for users in the new office will be stored on FSI until the new branch office server is installed, at which time the data will be moved to the branch office server. The changes will include the following technical, security, and user requirements:
Technical Requirements

DHAEI must meet the following technical requirements:

    Ensure that all company-issued computers receive all updates that have been approved for release by the technology department.
    Minimize Internet bandwidth by providing internal computers with Microsoft updates via internal servers.
    Minimize traffic across the VPN for remote users.
    Provide central monitoring of all servers.
    Generate an email whenever a hardware event occurs on any of the servers in the company.
    The support technicians located in the branch office must have the rights to perform all local maintenance on the branch office servers in their respective branches.
    The installation of the new RODC in the Brampton office must minimize active directory replication across the WAN link between Columbus and the main office storage space to store user data must be minimized.
    All company-issued computers must be configured with Office 365.

Security Requirements

DHAEI must meet the following security requirements:

    The branch office technicians should not have any rights to servers not located in their respective branch offices.
    The installation of the new RODC in the Brampton office must not require any passwords or cached secrets to be stored outside of company servers.
    Files stored on the company file servers must be protected in the event that a file server or the drives from any file server are stolen.

User Requirements

DHAEI must meet the following user requirements:

    Users in the new branch office must access their data using mapped drives.
    User drives should not need to be remapped when the data is moved from the main office file server to the branch office server.

Project Outcomes

By the end of this project activity, you would have completed a Risk Management Plan for DHAEI and developed an executive summary that captures your risk management process.
Submission Guidelines

    Submit a link to a Google doc that contains your report. This report will be evaluated according the evaluation rubric.

    Make sure you change the share settings to the doc to allow and access to all.

    To submit your project, use the Project Submission button given at the top and follow the instructions.

    your project should be follow an Executive Summary format

Note

There is more than one way to approach this problem.

After you have submitted your workflow, you may also want to share it with your peers on Discord, and take a look at the various approaches your peers used.
Evaluation Guidelines

    Familiarize yourself with the Eval Rubric tab so you can read about the competencies you will be evaluated on for this particular project, and review what the different levels of each competency require.

    If you receive Unsatisfactory for any competency, your project will be given feedback to implement before it is accepted. Review the feedback provided, make changes to your project, and aim to resubmit your updated project within 48 hours.

This is not a bad thing; having to resubmit is an opportunity for you to improve and it is common for students to need to implement feedback on their projects before being accepted.
Project Requirements

    Student has made clear which resources they used to do vulnerability and associated IoC and mitigation research, such as: NIST NVD and/or MITRE ATT&CK
    Report is an Executive Summary that captures risk management process
    Risk management plan has met the technical, security, and user requirements within the user scenario.

References

References are crucial for credibility, validating arguments, and avoiding plagiarism. References enable readers to verify information; build on existing knowledge, and uphold ethical standards while promoting transparency. All the resources you access should be listed in a References List at the end of your work.

You may use tools, like Citation Machine, to generate citations for your work.
Instruction

The widely accepted citation format in the cyber security industry is the APA format. Use this format for all projects in the program. Once you enter the industry, you may follow a different citation style if instructed by your organization.
Note

Examples: A guide to digital forensics and cybersecurity tools. Forensics Colleges. (2022, May 19). https://www.forensicscolleges.com/blog/resources/guide-digital-forensics-tools

Whitman, M., & Mattord, H. (2017). Principles of information security (6th ed.). CENGAGE Learning Custom Publishing.
